---
title: "Jajabara"
date: 30-05-2025
description: "A journey through whims of fate and lucid memories. Growing up, old and looking for the purpose of life."
draft: false
index: false
tag: "#life"
showImg: true
---

Greek mythology is fascinating and full of stories that explore the human condition. My fascination stems from the fact that even gods are flawed - subject to the same emotions and desires as mortals. Zeus with his infidelity, Hera with her jealousy, Aphrodite with her vanity - all divine yet deeply imperfect.

Sisyphus, the king of Ephyra, was punished by Zeus for cheating death twice. He was condemned to roll a boulder up a hill, only to watch it roll back down, doomed to repeat this task for eternity, never able to complete it. I see the myth of Sisyphus as a metaphor for the futility of life and the eternal journey to find purpose in a world that is indifferent to our existence—a never-ending quest, a journey fraught with constant change and uncertainty. My journey throughout these years feels quite similar. Not because I am being punished by Zeus for cheating death (not that I'd get caught), but because I find myself constantly building a new life in a new corner of the world, pushing a new boulder up a new hill.

Each journey represents a new beginning, a fresh start in a different city, where I build a new life and make new friends. The ascent is filled with hope and possibility. I try to find my place in this newfound world, and craft memories before the boulder rolls back down, signaling the inevitable need to move, leaving behind what I've built and starting afresh. Empty houses—ones filled with laughter and joy, shops that let me pay later since I was a regular, now closed, replaced with malls and supermarkets, friends and their stories now only in distant memories, neighbours who became family, and friends who became strangers.

### Bhubaneswar: The Early Years

My earliest memories are rooted in Bhubaneswar when I was around two or three years old. Earliest dating back to how my room looked like, the faint essence of my bed, the tube lights and going to school. My mother's image isn't vivid - just fragments of her hair, a white dress, and the stories she told as she took me everywhere with her. 

My father had a Suzuki Max 100. When I was three or four, whenever we went out somewhere, I always had this inexplicable urge to sit on the fuel tank. The "shotgun" equivalent of a motorcycle. It makes you feel like a rider, the man in control. The lucid memories of faint incense sticks, the scenery, vivid imagery of lifetimes I lived—often heroes in those stories I heard from my grandparents—the snug bed I slept in, and the blue tricycle I rode all feel like a different lifetime now, pieces of a world I left behind every time we moved.

*Blue*, because I remember it was blue, and my cousin-sister had a red one, but she somehow managed to break hers. Our mothers asked us to share the one I had. Sly, that one. Always knew right from wrong, sporting devilish smirks, with a knack for breaking things—chewed, scratched, or demolished in forms beyond recognition. We were colour-coded. All my things, from my tiffin and a huge water bottle to my pencils, were blue. Hers were red.

We are six months apart. Every day, our mothers would pick us up from school, and once we were home, they'd make us sit on the floor for lunch. For reasons I still don't fully understand, I always took an absurdly long time to finish my meal—it could stretch anywhere from one to three hours. The afternoon naps were floaty and euphoric. We had this incredible Sony music system, and we both followed a routine. The same music CD played every afternoon, and we were asleep by the end of the second song. That's why I could only remember the first couple of songs on the CD, and one of them was *Jajabara*.

Similar to the myth of Sisyphus, [Jajabara](https://music.apple.com/us/album/jajabara-original-motion-picture-soundtrack-ep/1380220136)—a masterclass of poetry and epitome of Odia literature—is a poem about a nomadic lifestyle, with the poet describing his journey through the world, and the world being a stage. The poet refers to their mind as a nomad who constantly roams or seeks something beyond immediate reality. It speaks about the poet's limitless hopes and indicates a deep longing or an unquenchable thirst for something greater, a cyclical nature of life where values or rules are constantly created and discarded like sandcastles, highlighting the transient, Sisyphean nature of human beliefs. Ironic that it makes more sense now, after 23 years.

Today, looking at Manhattan from my apartment, I barely remember when I last watched an afternoon pass. The world is a blur now, a constant rush of deadlines, meetings, and responsibilities. A hazy, unfraught journey through the streets of New York, alone, with the city buzzing around me. Left with a constant cycle of quarter-life crises and existential dread.

My cousin - once a child breaking her red tricycle - married last month at twenty-five. We started as children with colour-coded possessions, and now she is building her own family while I build a career across the ocean in the opposite part of the globe. Strange how nostalgia grips you.

Each time we packed up and left, I saw the boulder rolling back down. We started building a new life in a different city. The cycle of moving and rebuilding continued, each time leaving behind a piece of myself.

### Tram Rides and Power Rangers

Leaving behind my grandparents was the most difficult. Each of my grandparents had lived over half a century, carrying a treasury of experiences, perspectives, and philosophies that I loved to listen to. My maternal grandfather worked in the Secretariat, while my paternal grandfather had been working in the education department in Odisha. Both of my grandmothers were teachers, though my father's mother left her profession after marriage while my mother's mother continued teaching. Their stories weren't just simple fables but windows into worlds shaped by time and wisdom. Years later, now that I think of it, the stories make me understand human psychology better. Each scrutinising from their own lens of how the world worked, right or wrong- they were mere perspectives which I seemed to absorb and live through. A time when crossing rivers to attend school and fishing for lunch was the norm. 

We moved to Kolkata in 2005 when my father's job took us there. We lived in the company's quarters in Tollygunge, a small, close-knit space with a single bedroom with an attached balcony that quickly became our new home. Our apartment was on the fourth floor, and the balcony oversaw entire Kolkata. The colony had just two modest buildings, side by side, separated by a narrow passage that led to a small backyard. At the end of this passage, tucked against the wall, was a bench where you could sit and feel the world slow down. One side was flanked by the buildings, the other by a tall barrier that seemed to enclose our little world.

We couldn't roam around on our bikes as freely as we used to; the streets of Kolkata felt too busy, the city too vast for us. Luckily, the main road I lived by had a tram stop near the mosque, and my memories of tram rides remain vivid. They were similar to the journey of life, the slow, rocking motion- pushing boulders up and down, represting that destinations are transient, while journeys are absolute and permanent. Trams were slow enough to be safe, yet fascinating enough for me to hang out my head out of the window. I remember how the ticket looked, the old paper with a red border, and the sounds of the bells; the bus conductor used to pull a rope tied to the roof, which was connected to a bell. Slowly settling into the busy, loud Kolkata life, the tram rides were a welcome respite, a chance to slow down and watch the world pass by.

A mosque was situated in the middle of the road. I used to figure out play time by listening to the *azaan*. Four-thirty in the afternoon marked the time for me to rush out and play. The other side of the road was a sweet shop. This one was resposnible for sharing all our love with our relatives who came to visit, or the friends and family whom we visited. This shop embodied the essence of Kolkata's culture.

Kolkata was kind and homely to us. The streets buzzed with busy life, clattering trams, honking yellow taxis, and the vibrant hum of people filling every corner. The smells of street food, especially sweet shops mixed with the scent of incense from nearby temples, and the narrow lanes wound through neighbourhoods like veins through the heart of the city, each turn leading to a different world. It was a world much bigger than what we were used to. The transition was already difficult for us Odias, as we did not understand Bengali, and Kolkata was adamant about making us learn it.

We explored the city mostly by metro, and according to my mother, a trip to a station sparked an odd obsession in me—the escalators. I couldn't resist them. I'd race up and down the same one, completely captivated, much to my father's chagrin. In those days, corporal punishment was a common disciplinary response to disobedience, and each time I ran wild on the escalator and fell down, I knew what awaited me next. Still, I couldn't resist the pull of the moving stairs. I had to try and see if I could walk upstairs faster than the escalator moving down. I never could. It's only now, decades later, that I see how that simple childhood struggle foretold a pattern in my life.

Like those metro station escalators, I can never outrun destiny. It is meant to take you where you're supposed to go, no matter how hard you try, and it is for the better I believe, for life has many lemons to offer, and I am yet to make a lot of lemonade.

My sister was born in 2005, and we spent the next year in Kolkata. I'm unsure how I felt about her arrival. I was five and a half. With time, I remember the feeling of having to share my parents with her, which was new and strange and I was unwilling. A new human being started taking away all my things which led me to feel annoyed at first. Siblings are territorial, and we were no different. We have some wild stories to tell. I pushed her so hard once that she had to get a stitch on her head. She doesn't hold that on me anymore. Now that I don't live with her, I miss her a lot, though I would never admit it to her. She is a lot like me.

During this time, our maid, used to take care of me. She and her daughter used to babysit me and my sister. She was kind and loving, often shielding me from my mother's scolding when I refused to study in the evenings, writing down multiplication tables. She even stood up for me when the colony kids bullied me. My mother had less mobility as she had to take care of my sister. While she couldn't take me everywhere like she used to, I roamed around with my father. 

I remember one time I got lost in Victoria Memorial. My aunt was visiting us, and we went to the Victoria Memorial. I was holding my father's hand while gazing at the stars and walking straight. They seemed to follow me as if looking straight at me. I was fascinated by the stars, and I still am. They feel like a nomadic tribe, wandering the sky, telling stories of the past, much like Jajabara. At some point, my father let go of my hand to take out his wallet. Oblivious, I kept walking straight, and when I turned back, I couldn't see him. I was lost, and an extremely kind family offered me help and asked for my father's number. They even offered me ice cream, but I was too shaken to eat anything.

Mother never let me go to Victoria Memorial again. I feel like she had always been my mother in all other worlds—loving, pushing me to get a 100/100 in exams for only God knows what reason, and constantly opposed to whatever I wanted to do because it might be too dangerous, too expensive, or unholy in some way as if God were constantly waiting for me to eat chicken on a Tuesday and punish me for it. 

The most memorable part of living in Kolkata would be the train journeys to and from Kolkata to Bhubaneswar. We often visited our home in Bhubaneswar, and I loved the train journeys at night. The train used to halt before entering West Bengal, and my dad would bring food from Kharagpur Station. I feel that the journeys in my life have always made me feel better. They helped me live multiple lives, one in Kolkata, and others in the places I visited. During the journey, we halted at various cities, each with different relatives, friends, and stories of their own.

The train journeys were a time for introspection, a time to reflect on the past and plan for the future. The rhythmic sound of the train on the tracks was soothing, and the gentle rocking motion was comforting. I listened to stories of fellow passengers, living their lives and judging the morality of the world, and I often found myself lost in thought, contemplating the meaning of life and my place in it. They were a time to disconnect from the world and connect with myself, a time to dream, to imagine, and to create. Similar to the journey of life, pushing boulders up and watching them roll back, train journeys felt permanent—stopping at stations, then moving on, pausing for a couple of years before hopping on another train, in another city, on another journey.

The boulder was yet to roll down, and a new valley was to be scaled. The memories of Kolkata are etched in my mind—a time of innocence and wonder, a time of exploration and discovery.

### Growing Up

Somewhere in mid-2007, I found myself packed with bags, my mother and cousin uncles helping us move with a new boulder this time. This eternal movement in my fate, my Sisyphean journey, was because my father's job required us to constantly uproot and rebuild in different cities- every two years as the government mandated it. 

The company quarters we moved into were located in a sprawling colony, and my house number was B2/2. The colony was huge, a little universe of its own, with its own customs. It was a mix of people from different backgrounds and cultures, mostly from South and Central East—West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar, and Odisha. We traded homemade dishes, celebrated festivals together, and played until the sun disappeared—or until our parents dragged us back home, whichever came first.

I was lucky enough to meet many kids around my age. Together, we formed a large, rambunctious group, though most of them were four or five years older than me. That age gap meant I often served as their errand boy, fetching items or doing other grunt work, but I was happy to be part of the group. Two rival groups prevailed: the men versus the ladies. Each group had four to five members, and we played hide-and-seek, football, badminton, and all sorts of games together. I was one of the younger members and was at the mercy of the older ones. The women bossed me around, always using me in their battles. Men were simpler, but equally provocative in wars. I was the weapon of choice for both sides. 

We still had harmony for most of the time. We went to tuitions together, watched TV, shared comics, went on long walks, exchanged game disks and comic books, played IGI, and had fun. Us boys were more focused on comics, sports, and video games. We played badminton, football, and cricket, and usually, the cricket ball would end up in someone's house, and we would have to beg them to give it back. Every evening we would dash out of the house, knocking and ringing doorbells to bring everyone out to play—without fail, every single day.

On weekends, the colony would come alive with house parties—usually arranged by the girls in our group. All they needed was a little food, some snacks, and a place to sit, and they would plan a host of games I never quite understood. Birthdays were also a big deal; everyone would show up to celebrate, regardless of how well they knew the birthday kid. We played badminton and hide-and-seek frequently. These games were gender-neutral and thus played by everyone. 

My family and relatives often visited us. In this new world, where the invisible boundary of the colony defined my universe, my family and relatives were always a joy to have. They brought with them stories, laughter, and love, filling our home with warmth and joy. Their arrival meant less studying, more roaming around, and some petty cash to spend when they left. Now, years later, their memories make me want to rush back home. The memories accompany me making my subway rides a bit more bearable, and my nights a bit more peaceful.

Beyond the colony, there wasn't much exploration of Asansol itself. Unlike Kolkata, we didn't go out much; the colony truly was my whole world. At eight, I was starting to understand that there was a larger, more complex society beyond our boundary walls, but the extent of my daily life revolved around my friends and our home. Now, at twenty-four, I watch days pass by, and nights go white with the snow and the world outside—a place where I am yet to find my place.

My school was far away. I remember the bus rides taking an hour to reach the school. My school was like stepping onto a different dimension. It was a Christian Missionary School, Assembly of the God Church, deeply invested in sharing biblical stories and holding long, reflective assemblies. The institution's strictness was jarring to me at first. It was also huge, boasting two expansive playgrounds and a canteen that sold mouthwatering spring rolls. I remember scoring 100/100 in Math. I was always good at Math, Science, Grammar, and Literature—you might have guessed as much since I spent so long writing this piece—and terrible at History, Civics, Hindi, and Arts.

My parents put a lot of emphasis on scoring well. This somehow slowly started to shape my life in a way that I would not have actually wanted. I feel children should be left alone to be children, constantly failing and succeeding on their own merit—paving their own way in the world, and not be burdened with the weight of expectations. A lemon now I know what to do with.

Vacations were mostly spent back home. Asansol—and indeed most of West Bengal—came alive in October and November with Durga Puja festivities. Durga Puja has always been the most joyous time for me throughout the years. In all the cities I have lived in, life has always been kinder to me during these few days. We would roam the streets at night, visiting brightly lit pandals and paying our respects to the idol of the goddess, returning just in time for community dinners at the colony tents. In November and December, the winters were chilly, and we couldn't sleep without a heater. That was also the year we bought our first car—a cherry-coloured Hyundai Getz Prime. We often drove the 500 km to Bhubaneswar, weaving through scenic highways, pausing at roadside stalls, and listening to stories from my parents' own childhoods, oblivious to what awaited me in adulthood.

Looking back, I realize how simple everything was back then. The world felt small, and the days stretched endlessly. The transient inevitability of the non-linear passage of time was yet to dawn on me. I still don't truly believe in the concept of linear time. I don't feel Asansol was just two years of my life. It feels like much longer. Days were longer. Surrounded by family and relatives, life never felt lonely. My sister, who once fit snugly in my arms, is nineteen now. Back then, the world was a playground, and I was the undisputed king of my castle.

Yet, like every chapter before, the boulder couldn't stay perched on that hill forever. This journey from one hill to another—the ultimate Sisyphean truth—hurt this time. My friends in the colony were gradually being uprooted too—their parents worked in the same organization, which meant one by one, they all had to move on, and I realized the inevitability of this journey. Again, back to square one, we found ourselves with our bags packed. After five odd years of living in a different state, my father got a chance and thought it would be nice to go back to Odisha and live near home. Those years in a different state had raced by. It was time to start over, to push yet another boulder up another hill. But even though leaving Asansol stung, I found solace in the understanding that such is the nature of life: a Sisyphean cycle of endings and beginnings, each one layered with memories, friendships, and lessons I would carry forward.

### Back to Roots

I was nine years old now, in 2009, and my parents seemed happy. Moving to Jajpur, a small town in Odisha, meant we were closer to Bhubaneswar, making frequent visits to our extended family much easier. My grandparents were overjoyed; they could see us more often, visiting every weekend and sometimes staying with us for extended periods. This was a welcome change for all of us.

Our new move was peaceful, and we gradually started settling down. I was in fourth grade now and attended *Harrow Public School*. The school was small, with a playground that was more of a dust bowl. The school itself was housed in a large, unfinished two-story building. The first floor was divided into two sections: a vast hall accommodating four different classes without any partitions, and a smaller room designated for the primary grades—first, second, and third, separated by walls and curtains.

I was introduced to my native Odia language in a more raw form. The prayers, scripts, and literature were a bit difficult for me to grasp since other students had been learning the language for a long time. Despite this, the culture felt personal and heartfelt.

The exciting part was witnessing sixth and seventh-grade students getting disciplined by the teachers. Beating students until they turned red was an essential discipline technique in a rural town. The teachers were strict, and the students were rowdy. The school was a mix of different backgrounds. Some were from the town, while others were from the nearby villages. I was excited since the school allowed students pens in the fourth grade, and that is what mattered to me the most; pen users were the elite, and being able to scribble with a pen instead of a pencil was a significant rite of passage.

Jajpur life was slow, peaceful, and simple. The town was small, with narrow, muddy lanes and small shops, enveloped by paddy fields and empty grounds. The air was rich with the scent of fresh earth and filled with the sound of birds. The evenings were cool, filled with the chorus of crickets, children playing, and temple bells ringing. Nights were serene and quiet. The town was a world away from the hustle and bustle. We rented a house and settled in, making it our home. The weekends were a ride to Bhubaneswar, and the weekdays were spent in school and solitary confinement.

Transitioning from a place where I had countless friends to a new home with hardly any children nearby was a strange and emotionally difficult adjustment. It's not that I had zero friends, I did have a lot of friends in school, and a couple near my house. There was a disconnect, though, not palpable then, but slightly more evident now. It was my first real encounter with loneliness. The few children who lived near us attended a different school—a more polished institution. In the evenings, I spent most of my time alone, watching TV, playing on computers, or just wandering around the house. The loneliness was palpable, a constant companion that followed me everywhere. Afternoons and evenings passed by, blueish violet skies, and the sun setting in the distance. I would often wait for the sun to set completely and listen to the sounds of the temple prayers blasting on the speaker in a loop. Mostly lucid, I would sit on my bed, just reminiscing about the past, overthinking about the future, and wondering what or where would I be, in 15 years. New York, the US? Careful what you wish for.

I spent most of my time reading and watching TV soap operas. I have read countless books. From comics to Dickens and Tolstoy, I was a voracious reader. I do not remember popular books or prominent series that I read- never read Narnia or Harry Potter, was more into the classics. Tolstoy was a nice read but too polished for my taste. Dickens had this amazing grounded writing style, exploring the human condition much like Sisyphus. I was fascinated by the way he portrayed the struggles of his characters, their resilience in the face of adversity, and their quest for meaning in a chaotic world. These stories resonated with me, lost in pages and in worlds far away.

Other times I was invested in Soap operas, an addict. That was what primarily kept me entertained. And my computer. We got a new computer after moving to Jajpur. I still remember my dad weighing in the pros and cons of assembling a PC and buying a pre-built one. We went ahead with an assembled one. Actually, the loneliness didn't affect me a lot, unlike how in adulthood it slammed right on my face, anxiety creeping up my spine. Childhood loneliness was a happy loneliness. My mind wandered off to places I had never been, and I was happy to be lost in my own world. Maybe I don't completely understand this, and although not the most ideal situation- having to spend most of my time alone, I was happy, and at peace. The weekends were a relief, back in Bhubaneswar with all my extended family and cousins.

My favourite memory has to be the journey back home. We would travel in our Hyundai Getz Prime, taking the four-hour drive to Bhubaneswar. The route was picturesque, winding through lush green fields, quaint villages, and increasingly wider roads as we crossed cities. The journey was a time to bond with my family, to talk about lives lived in the 70s, 80s, and 90s, to laugh, and to share stories—a time to reflect and plan for the future, a time to dream, to imagine, and to create. The soundtrack to these memories was the Odia songs from the CD my father bought, featuring the soulful music of Akshaya Mohanty. The same one who sang *Jajabara*. I still remember the order of the songs and the lyrics, each one etching itself into my memory.

There always felt something profoundly liberating about being on the road, in motion, part of a journey. Roads are a metaphor for life itself—a journey fraught with constant change and uncertainty.

However, our time in Jajpur was brief- a year. Settling down proved difficult, and concerns about education and livelihood began to outweigh the town's tranquil allure. My parents decided it was best to move to Cuttack, as enrolling in a school in Bhubaneswar mid-year seemed impossible. The following year was spent with me, my mother, and my sister in Cuttack, while my father stayed back in Jajpur to wrap up his term. A new beginning awaited us, a new boulder to be pushed up a new hill. The Sisyphean cycle continued, and I was ready to embrace it.

### Leaving Behind the Rural Life

Mother, sister, and I moved to Cuttack. Jajpur and Cuttack weren't that far apart- a four-hour drive. The move to Cuttack restored a sense of belonging. The city was vibrant, with a rich history and culture. Cuttack is an old city with a diverse population. People from all over India lived there, a melting pot of cultures. The streets were lined with ancient lanes, bustling markets, and the scent of fresh flowers. While Odia was the main language, I also encountered Bengali, Marwari, and other influences daily. The school introduced me to a bunch of new friends and perspectives, and my tuition classes were fun-filled. I was in fifth grade now, and I attended DAV Public School, CDA Sector 9.

Funnily enough, fifth grade was when my lady luck started to change. This girl had a crush on me, and I, the comic book geek, was completely oblivious to it. My bench-mate was her best friend and we quickly became friends. My move from Cuttack was devastating for her. She was a bit too loud and obsessive, now that I think of it. Weirdly, she made me promise not to talk to any other girls from the other section, and foolishly, I agreed. I had no idea how to deal with this newfound attention. It is now hilarious that I think of it. 

Cuttack introduced me to people more my speed. I made some amazing friends, whom I am still in touch with. We spent our days playing cricket, attended tuition classes, and went on school picnics. There was a radical change in the sixth grade. Although we moved to Jamshedpur once my fifth grade was over, before the summer, I spent a month or two in Cuttack. Sixth grade was spent in Sector, was a new ballgame. Sections spanning up to I or J, each holding sixty to seventy students. The school was huge, with a sprawling campus, and multiple playgrounds. I didn't have a lot of time to explore before we moved. It had these amazing food stalls outside the school, and I remember asking my mother to spare some change every day to get food from there. She obliged because she knew I wasn't an avid eater, yet, and wouldn't be able to stand and eat food from the stalls. I took an absurdly long time to finish my food. 

Our life in Cuttack was beautiful, always filled with family and relatives, and more than half the time was spent back at home in Bhubaneswar. I made many friends, and living in a city made perfect sense to me. We were there for just another year before my father's office decided it was time for another ascent, a new life to be built. Bags packed, trucks loaded, sitting in a car watching the city pass by, we found ourselves in Jamshedpur. The year was 2011, and I was in the sixth grade.

### The ultimate Sisyphean high

Life in Jamshedpur was a time of absolute growth and transformation. I was in the sixth grade. We were used to this by now, the constant moving and rebuilding. The cycle of life, the journey of Sisyphus, was a part of our existence. Writing about Jamshedpur is a tough one. Jamshedpur was, is, the most amazing part of my life. Among all the Sisypheian journeys, this hill is where Sisyphus finally finds peace. The boulder feels like at rest, before the Zeus of life inevitably rolls it back down. 

Jamshedpur had everything to offer. Friends, primarily, improvement in my lady luck, and a sense of belonging. I was in the sixth grade. Movies made more sense, books, less so. Time to stop reading and getting lost was over. Teenage life had just begun. Adventures and mischief were the order of the day. I spent my adolescent years in this city, a place that was a mix of old-world charm and modern industry. The city was a melting pot of cultures, with people from West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, and Odisha, among others, all calling it home—primarily because it was situated so conveniently, sharing borders with all these states. Life in this city was my magical world. The streets were lined with trees, and the air was refreshingly clean—punctuated by the hum of factories, a reminder of the steel plants that shaped its history. It was a place where I found myself growing up, making friends, and building memories.

I shifted to DAV again, in Jamshedpur. Initially, the transition was difficult. Jamshedpur's culture was distinct from anywhere I'd been before. Its kids, mostly from Bihar, Jharkhand, and West Bengal, had a more direct, sometimes abrasive way of bonding. They weren't outright bullies, but building rapport wasn't straightforward. They came from different, varied backgrounds than what I was used to seeing, and they were hilariously notorious. The teachers were strict, a mix of old and young. These kids used to have a ton of fun with the teachers, mostly involving name-calling, screaming, and shouting, and the teachers, in turn, would discipline them. They groomed me well, and I quickly got ready for this battle, eager to be a member of this undisciplined colony.

<!-- *To be continued...* -->

<!-- School was a lot of fun. I was involved in all sorts of activities—from cultural events to debates. My classmates remained the same across the years, from 6th to 10th. We watched each other grow up, forging deep ties, sharing experiences, and building memories. -->

<!-- More about school -->


<!-- I don't have to put enough emphasis on why a 16-year-old would find a city nostalgic, do the math, if you're here reading this, you have read enough literature.
- Colony life, friends, 6th & 7th
- Incidents/ Experiences
- Tuition classes 8th 9th 10th
- Incidents/ Experiences 
- Going back home, Bhubaneswar, losing grandparent in 8th grade
- Incidents/ Experiences - Toffee
- 10th grade, board exams, 2015(10th), 2016(the year we left)
- Toffee -->

Jamdhedpur wasn't far from Bhubaneswar, and we often visited our home, in our Hyundai. Car journeys now were longer, spanning seven to eight hours. The roads were wider, and the journey was more comfortable. We would stop at roadside dhabas for food, and I would often get lost in my thoughts, contemplating the world outside. The teenaged me was more aware of the world, and I was starting to understand the complexities of life. Sisyphean journeys were now a part of my existence, and the teenage me was beginning to navigate the roads, remember the paths.

This one time while returning back from home, I also got my first pet, Toffee. Reminiscing about Toffee feels surreal, as if we were siblings in another life, in a distant past. She was a beautiful Dalmatian—the sweetest, most obedient dog—with an infinite capacity for love that transcended space and time. My sister picked her up from our neighbours in Bhubaneswar while we were heading back to Jamshedpur; she was a gift from them. Initially, I was sceptical. I had never had pets and wasn't particularly too fond of animals. But during that eight-hour ride back to Jamshedpur, Toffee became an endless source of affection, quickly weaving herself into the fabric of our family.

The sad part of this story is that Toffee was taken away from us. My mother said it was too much for her to manage—a dog and two young children. Even now, I struggle to contemplate what was so impossible. She was such a sweet soul, potty trained and obedient. I remember the weekend we returned to Bhubaneswar to drop her off. My aunt was excited; she loved Toffee and wanted to keep her, which was the agreed-upon plan. The thirteen-year-old me was okay with this arrangement since Toffee would still be part of the family, and I would have brought her back after a couple of months. But, unbeknownst to us, my uncle and grandfather had hatched a different sinister plan. They gave her away when my aunt was not home.

Life moved on. Life in Jamshedpur was consuming enough, back then. The gravity of the separation hadn't hit me, yet. Now, years later, it feels completely devastating. I feel like something inside me broke that day, and I never fully recovered.

Missing Rio, and knowing how much he misses me, back at home, I could only begin to imagine the turmoil that two-three-month-old Toffee, who knew us as her only family after birth, must have gone through while separating. She loved us a lot, and this betrayal from her own family must have been devastating for her.

It is difficult for dogs to understand and process complex and cynical human emotions. Looking back, remembering her fondly makes it more and more evident of the void that she left in my heart, and how unfair life had been for her. From being in a loving family to living with the extended family to being given away, and for no absolute fault of her own. It makes more and more sense that we humans, don't deserve animals; pure unadulterated love, affection and loyalty. Our race, we are simply just not worthy of them. God must have made a mistake, creating such pure souls in a world so full of hate and deceit. Here, alone in New York, I think about her a lot; her indefinite showering of love and affection, and I know we'll be reunited in some form of life, next, for sure. Now that adulthood has set in, I recognize the emptiness her loss created within me. This encounter with grief was brief when I was a child, but having a new pet now brings everything back.

There's something magical about memories—how they weave time and space back together, how they linger in the corners of our minds, waiting to be revisited, shaping and defining us. I've come to understand that grief is not linear. Dealing with it is a continuous, non-linear, multi-dimensional process. It becomes increasingly more evident of certain repercussions of the past that I was never fully able to understand earlier. Now, twelve years later, my heart is processing the grief of losing Toffee and the void she left behind. It made sense why I am so attached to Rio and why the thought of losing him is so frightening. Her memories are etched in my mind. My sweet Toffee.

Certain incidents in life now make more sense, like the time I unexpectedly broke down in front of while my best friend was having a difficult conversation. He was breaking up with his girlfriend, and my job there was to console and support him. Between seeing him in pain, with red and wet eyes, there was something that triggered within me. I suddenly was overwhelmed and for the life of me, I could never fully process and understand why. Some friend crying in a unrelated situtaion seems like an abnormal absurd extrapolated emiotional response. I was there to support him. Now that my internal strategy of dealing with grief is slowly becoming evident, I realize that I have a tendency to push down feelings, deep. The separation from redacted was not something that I had processed fully. Superficially, it had been dealt with - the passage of time, but the emotional scars were present. It wasn't until I saw them going through the same rite of passage that I had gone through, that I suddenly felt a familiar pang, and the floodgates opened.

It brings a sense of peace. It might seem unusually weak—a twenty-four-year-old man, strong enough to leave behind his high-paying job for the current market, friends and entire family and start life from scratch in perhaps the world's most costliest city, New York, with a loan of over a hundred thousand, suddenly breaking down in front of his friends and then choosing to write about it. But this vulnerability feels healing. This is what it looks like from within. 

While the revelations are peaceful, it is not easy embracing them. The journey of life, a Sisyphean one, is a constant struggle against the weight of our own existence, a battle against the forces that seek to keep us down. But perhaps that is the point. Perhaps it is in the struggle itself that we find meaning, in the act of pushing the boulder up the hill, that we discover who we are and what we are capable of. Writing, looking at the sail boats in Hudson from my window under the sunny deep blue sky, and the sound of the waves crashing against the shore, I find solace in the knowledge that I am not alone in this struggle. Perhaps, thirty years from now, I will look back at this moment and see it as a turning point in my life, a moment of clarity and understanding, while on a sailboat in some distant land, fantasy or not. The sky would be always blue though, blue and not red. Blue territory is mine.

*To be continued...*

<!-- Grounding back to Jamshedpur, I was now in the ninth grade. The sisyphean journey continued. The academics were getting tougher, and the pressure was mounting. Technical challenge was not what I was worried about. I was a really good student, math, science and literature (as you might have guessed) were my strong suits. Civics and history, not so much.   -->

<!-- The year was 2015 now. The passage of time was becoming more evident. The world was changing. I could see the boulder ready to be rolled back in a year, after my tenth grade. No matter how hard I try, Father would make us move again. I was not ready for this. I was not ready to leave behind my friends, my life, and everything I had built over the years. The thought of starting over again was daunting, and this time I was absolutely terrified of what lay ahead. -->

<!-- It was frustrating for me to see my parents so nonchalant about the move. Uprooting live countless times had had a toll on me. The reasons were varied, spanning from not wanting to lose my school, and friends, not wanting to leave the place I grew up in, found a sense of belonging, to also involving teenage romance. Fifteen-year-old me was involved with someone, and it was an enormous deal for me. -->

<!-- **DEAL WITH THIS LATER** -->

<!-- My parents were not in agreement with me, understandably so. As teenagers, we act out, are rebellious, and are often misunderstood. Our parents got wind of this situation, and they were not happy. They confronted me about this situation and wanted to put a stop to it. My house was still easier to communicate in, and I cannot fathom how difficult it was for her to deal with this with her mother. The situation in my home was tense. 

I was asked to cut off ties with the other person involved, and I was baffled and furious. I was a good student, a good kid. I was just trying to figure out my life, be happy and live like a kid and they were trying to control me. I felt suffocated, trapped in a world that didn't understand me. My mother has this tendency to spill out her emotions, everywhere, not keep things to herself. And to humiliate me, she would often do this in front of my family, and other people who I didn't want to know about my life. It made me absolutely furious. Mobile phones had to be cautiously dealt with, now. In a short span, the situation improved. The boulder rolled dowm, and I let it roll. Life moved on. Following valleys became easier to scale.

Looking back, I see that I am still emotionally disturbed by this. I wish it could have been dealt with differently. I was not wrong back then, just a kid trying to figure out my life. Growing up, I can see that my expectations were correct, not unrealistic. I failed to take into account the fact that my parents were also human beings, with their own struggles and challenges. They were mortals, just like me. When their eldest is forging his own path, making his own decisions, and trying to find his own way in the world, the experience is equally new to them. They reprimand not because they want to, but because they don't know how to deal with this new situation. Whims of fate are equally cruel and oblivious to the struggles of us mortals. The upside is that my sister's situation is, of course, being dealt with a lot more maturity and understanding. This shows promise and growth, for which, I could never be more proud of them. I don't hold it against them anymore, for their growth and their Sisyphean journey is something I cherish equally. -->

<!-- END RJ Section -->

<!-- End JSR by writing about JEE now, engineeiring and IITs- moving to Hyd -->

<!-- ### Dreams and Reality, are shattered. (Hyderabad)

### Tough times, trying hard to survive (Chandigarh)

### All hopes lost, yet a glimmer of hope  (Bhubaneswar)

### The city of dreams, the city of despair  (Bangalore)

### The journey of life, the journey of Sisyphus  (New York) 

#### Navigating the concrete jungle where dreams are made of  (New York) (current) -->


<!-- Growing up feels a lot different. The world is a blur now, a constant rush of deadlines, meetings, and responsibilities. I see weeks and months passing by in a blink. Looking at the mirror, it feels like I am staring at a stranger. The facial structure seems familiar, but the eyes, seem different. They seem tired, weary, and lost, a distant echo of the child who once roamed the streets of Kolkata, played around in Asansol and explored the lanes of Jamshedpur with his best friends. 

The memories of the past are distant like echoes of a time before life sped up. Back then, the world seemed steady, but little did I know that soon, after moving countless boulders up various hills, I can't remember the last time I looked at an afternoon pass by.  -->

<!--Mortals, gods, and monsters alike are bound by the whims of fate; lives marked by joy and triumph, but also by tragedy and suffering. Each of us has our own personal myth that we live out every day—a story of love and loss, of hope and despair, a struggle against the unjust destiny we believe, and a prophecy to fulfill.


 Each time, I find myself answering the same question: what does this even achieve? It feels futile like I'm stuck in a never-ending cycle of building and rebuilding, always searching for something that remains just out of reach. But perhaps that is the point. After years of pushing the boulder up countless hills, I've come to realize that life isn't about reaching the summit. Like Sisyphus, perhaps the struggle itself is where we find meaning—an endless journey of rediscovery, with memories and experiences as the boulders we carry along the way. It is about taking the sourest lemons life has to offer and turning them into something resembling lemonade.

Only memories remain, and the journey is all that matters. After all, that's all we are, really, memories. And memories are all we leave behind. --> 